1231 Arches    3/15/16

HE Meeting re: Arches Implementation



Attendees:
	Steve Trow
	Stuart
	Sandy
	AD
	Mandy 
	Gill
	Lee

	Barney (came in after 1st hour)



1. Summary of Arches
	> Lee: High level drivers for Arches; Goals



2. HIAS
	> Improve data flows between HE (including internal) and external partners.  Make responsibilities clear

	> Designated, unlisted, monuments; (AMIE)
		- national marine dataset
		- GL area (GL HER)

		- THerefore, both national and local responsibilities

	> Undesignated monuments: Oracle (AMIE); should this be upgraded?  Or is this a time to move to a new system?


	> Vision: single shared, but distributed recording system


	> External Advisory Board



3. Greater London
	> User needs/areas for improvement over current system/workflow
		- Database stability (secure, reliable)
		- Accessibility (staff working from home, volunteers, other local gov partners)
		- Improve ability to work across discipline boundaries (e.g.: Archaeology vs. Built heritage)
		- Interoperability (avoid re-keying of data, review data flows from HERs to OASIS to HE)

		- "Getting data out again" > query system, self-serve ability for users (not currently possible)
			about 5000 archaeo excavations a year in England, 800 of which occur in London
			understaffed relative to this data inflow

			staff time dedicated to trying to respond to contractor queries, vs improving data quality or adding additional value to datasets. 

			Stuart: Takes 8 hrs to respond to 6 "very straightforward queries"  (e.g.: largest return was 30 records)


		- Key question (HIAS):  How much more efficient will the "new system" make us?  E.g.: can we avoid re-keying data?


		- Barney: ability to automate requested queries?  Stuart: might be possible, would require a "workflow" but has potential to speed up returns, streamline billing, etc.

			standard query: monumnets within xx meters of this building....


	> Lee: Need to decide whether to engage Exegesis to upgrade their product and services or cut ties and look for an alternative
		- 










